I'm so the first question is, if you could snap your fingers and completely fix, three things related to your city, infrastructure and neighborhood management tomorrow, what would they be? So for city infrastructure, we're talking about like maintaining a traditional types of things. Sorry my daughters screaming which would be, might be roads or asset management stuff like that in that range. 

So one was the one was infrastructure. The other was neighborhood. Yes. Neighborhoods. But you will use, there was a word that followed me right neighbor and a neighborhood management. So yeah, three things. Wow. I would say effective community engagement, very challenging, as far as the neighboring management goes in some context around that is, you know, we often hear from a local minority but we don't really age here since have what we should be doing in our neighborhoods that, you know, impacts everyone and and as you know, lots of buying I would say, I don't think I don't necessarily put roads at the top of the list. 

All the we've got in our payment management system rating. Is, you know, below the average that we would want and we're trying to raise that, you know, through our capital improvement program, but I would say tackling some of our more active transportation. Complete street needs, is a something that if I could just leave one that I'd wave that. 

Yeah. 

And then it she bring it to our city and someone will be talking about and we end up. Have a strategic proactive, knowledge gathering network as a smart city, you know, infrastructure grid. And again, you know, things like streets and and water, mains and sewers. We're pretty good at those. 

We figured those things out. We have not figured out how to build the technology infrastructure that we need for the 21st century. We know how to do that, and we're trying to figure it out and be wonderful. Somebody. You know, had that answer. Great. Thank you so much for that answer and and that just, I was using roads as an example. 

So feel free to tell us. What's the most important to you. So I think you did that great. So thank you. The second question is considering community members perspectives and complaints? What are top five areas of concern related to your city's neighborhoods? And/or infrastructure. What's this is number one, neighboring safety was probably number two, don't say cleanliness. 

It's number three. I probably says, a lot about where we're at, as a organization and our resources, we've recently passed a sales tax measure to get at some of those basic core issues. So we're not, we're actually not today. Highly focused on our tree canopy or our our some of our actor transportation. 

Because we're handling some of the basics. And in those three that I just mentioned beyond that, I would say probably new streets 10 rows and then the last one is probably lighting great. And then the final questions a little bit more focused I'm sure you had to access to a service similar to sorry Google Street View except the image that are updated every few weeks. 

How would you use a service if at all? You know? That's, that's your curious question with technology. We've been talking about force multipliers and it's pretty expensive to have our folks out on the streets staying in day out if it was updated regularly enough, what to allow us to do active, code enforcement and proactive, homeless encampment, abatements without net necessarily having to have some folks have to be windshield surveys or only be complaint based. 

I think that's would be very we want to be very thoughtful and careful about how we're using data when it comes to enforcement. But I could see us looking at patterns related to, you know, like I mentioned yes. And by it I can see this monitoring patterns relate to homelessness patterns related to condition of our streets and Glenminus. 

I could see us. Also using economic development standpoint to help think through where we're seeing activity or lack of activity and where we, you know, target our resources, where we're sometimes. My philosophy is, you know where the market drives investment, we don't need to step in but where the markets, not driving investment, maybe that's what government we play a role to make things happen in this bench neighborhoods. 

We're so that could be an opportunity for us to move identify areas of need as well as track whether making any progress in those areas great. Well, that's sums up the our qualitative questions. So we just to give you a little bit more background after I basically was didn't want to give you too much information so that we didn't lead the conversation at all and make sure that it was unbiased as possible. 

But yeah, we are currently pursuing just doing this research for a startup that that we're running or proposing and so if it's possible, would you mind if I contact you in the future? If something does seem to be the pet, there seems to be a pattern across cities. Yes, that's right. 

Yeah, it's most likely, we wouldn't be pursuing anything related to like selling you anything. At this time, it might be in the form of a pilot or something like that in the future. Something that, I mean, I, I came from the city, I worked the city of Tulsa for multiple years. 

I was in charge of data management innovation, artificial intelligence stuff like that for years. And so, I'm very familiar with the procurement process and all this, all the hoops. You have to jump through to get something across. But we're just trying to kind of make sure that this product, there's enough of a need for this, for what we're proposing. 

And so your answers are extremely helpful, and it really appreciate your time and appreciate your public support both in Tulsa and still your, you know, helping cities. So thank you, I'll have a great evening. Thank you. Bye.
