City: Phoenix, AZ
10/15/2021

If you could snap your fingers and completely fix 3 things related to your city infrastructure and neighborhood management tomorrow, what would they be?
 
Answer: #1) Ensure the extension of our Regional (County-wide) Transportation Tax (Proposition 400) through voter approval.
 
Revenue collections for Proposition 400 expire on December 31, 2025. The recent focus has been on developing enabling legislation which provides the ability to request a tax initiative be placed on a county ballot. Maricopa County is required to first seek authority from the state legislature to place a Proposition 400 extension on the ballot. A request for the date of a ballot placement is planned for 2022, with a current target date for the election to extend Proposition 400 of November 2022, with a backup date of November 2024.
 
Our Regional Metropolitan Planning Agency is currently in the process of developing a new Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) that will serve as the basis for the extension of Proposition 400. The RTP not only provides future needs assessment of the Regional Freeway System, the Regional Arterial Street System, and the Regional Public Transportation System, it is also used to augment the City of Phoenix’ own dedicated sales tax for transportation (T2050).
 
Phoenix is one of six cities in the region whose dedicated transportation tax funds our local transportation needs. Two other cities in our region, Tempe and Mesa, are partners with Phoenix in our regional light rail system.
 
Over the life of the 35-year T2050 plan, revenues are estimated to generate about $16 billion, or almost half of the T2050 plan’s overall cost. An additional $14.8 billion is projected to be generated from federal and county funds (Prop 400), passenger fares and other sources. That’s why it so important to obtain voter approval for our regional sales tax extension and for other cities to develop more creative infrastructure strategies that leverage federal funding.
 
#2) Reduce the Phoenix Urban Heat Effect and Expedite Shade Programs
 
Since the 1950s, the average night-time temperature in central Phoenix has risen by nine degrees as a result of the urban heat island effect - a phenomenon caused by increasing amounts of hardscape and concrete surfaces that capture and store heat during the day and release it more slowly in the evening hours than in the surrounding desert, as well as waste heat emitted by vehicles, air conditioners, and other sources.
 
Over the last decade the City has taken actions ranging from activating the regional Heat Relief Network each summer, expanding shade opportunities available to transit users, enacting policies to keep summer hikers safe, to collaborating to design, from the ground up, redevelopment of the Edison Eastlake CHOICE Neighborhood as a model heat resilient community.
 
In 2017 the City engaged with researchers at Arizona State University (ASU) to create awareness and begin developing a comprehensive urban heat mitigation and adaptation plan. This work was the basis of HeatReadyPHX, a collaboration with ASU and the Maricopa County Department of Public Health, among others, and includes a HeatReady Certification for cities (modeled after the StormReady Certification) that will assess and certify heat readiness based on staff and investment, cooling strategies, and resources available for residents, among other criteria. HeatReadyPHX earned recognition and financial support for Phoenix as a Champion City in the Bloomberg Philanthropies' 2018 Mayors Challenge
 
In the face of these worsening problems, as part of the City's Fiscal Year (FY) 2021-22 Budget, Mayor Gallego created a new, first of its kind Office of Heat Response and Mitigation (OHRM) in the City Manager's Office. The OHRM will work to comprehensively address the public health threat of rising temperatures, meet the goals of the Tree and Shade Master Plan, and help create and implement data-driven strategies for buildings and infrastructure in the City to reduce the urban heat island effect, all in support of the heat-related goals in the Mayor’s Climate Action Plan.
 
#3) Adopting More Smart City Technology
 
The City of Phoenix has been working towards implementing smart city technology and ways to make accessing government services easier on our residents.
 
We hope that we can provide more services online. Our Planning and Development Department moved residential inspections to video inspections as well as offering  online plan review. One of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic was the dramatic increase in online building permitting, Pre-pandemic 20% online; post pandemic 80% online. And now we are ready to make this online experience smarter and better for our customers. 
 
The Planning & Development Department will be transitioning to the new timesaving and customer-friendly permitting system (Shape PHX) that will streamline electronic plan review, particularly for residential reviews and provide a near-seamless overall experience to PDD internal and external customers.
The first phase of SHAPE PHX includes residential single-family, townhomes and duplex related online permits, plan review and inspections with a new online portal available 24/7 allowing users to perform the following functions from any location:
·       Submit applications
·       Check plan review status
·       Communicate with staff
·       Request meetings with staff
·       Upload documents
·       Use a modernized, integrated Electronic Plan Review via Bluebeam®
·       Request inspections
·       Pay fees online
The second phase of SHAPE PHX, which includes commercial permits, planning applications and hearings is expected to be released in 2022.
The City of Phoenix Public Transit Department is leading the effort to implement a new regional fare collection system (how riders pay on the bus and light rail).
 
Features of the new system will provide new technology and options for customers such as:
Mobile ticketing: A smart phone app to buy fare, plan trips and link to rideshare options
The ability to create and manage online accounts
A smart scan-and-go reloadable fare card
Instant funds that can be added to your account for use on the bus or light rail
Continue working with third-party app developers to push out real-time data for passengers’ ease-of-use when using our system
 
The technology in the new fare collection system will be designed to support not only Light Rail and bus service in Phoenix but will also be developed to allow any regional partners that may choose to utilize the system in the future.
 
 
Considering community members’ perspectives and complaints, what are the top 5 areas of concern related to your city’s neighborhoods? What are your community members’ most pressing concerns/pain points? 
 
Answer: 
 
 
Here are the top five concerns (or calls) the Mayor’s Office receives broken down into five areas. I also added the 8 most common blight violations (from our Neighborhood Services Department) that neighborhoods report. 
 
Homelessness 
Emergency Rental Assistance and Programs (Through Human Services Department)
Streets issues (Maintenance, potholes, roads needing fixes)  
General department information questions (Contact info, department services)  
Constituent concerns with growing city population (transportation, safety, services)
 
If you had access to a service similar to google street view, except the images were updated every few weeks, how would you use this service?
 
Answer:  You would need to speak to our City Manager’s Office or individual department heads for more opinion on this. The City of Phoenix has looked at LiDAR and other applications for the possibility they are primed to play an increasingly important role in data collection in smart city applications. Similar applications have been reviewed as possible mechanisms for ensuring building and sign permits were in compliance, as well as building safety structural integrity. Though it has proven to be effective in more densely populated metro areas, it was not a fit in this capacity in Phoenix. There were also concerns raised by residents and some elected officials who had privacy concerns related to camera-based smart city applications.  This would require you do to more research with indicial departments in the City of Phoenix. Google would also have to enact this ground work on their own and have these discussions, as they would be subject to procurement procedures and an open bid process. At bottom, if a third party vendor had an idea on how the city could utilize a proprietary application or service, they should work with city experts to share information or work towards developing and Request for Information (RFI) process.